>> Brian Holt: We are gonna write
some RSCs we can make building up to
this moment and
this is definitely not gonna let you down.
It's never gonna give you up,
it's never gonna let you down.
>> [LAUGH].
>> Brian Holt: You weren't expecting
to get rickrolled by React today,
but here we are.
Okay, so, this is a lot to code by hand,
but it's kind of like
it's a lot of machinery to get
everything working together so
bear with me, but
we'll get there together.
Some of the stuff I'm gonna
hand wave over a little bit,
because it's just not super important
to getting everything correct.
But we'll try and
focus on the actual parts that's
gonna make you better at doing React.
So we are going to code a bare bones,
just RSE,with like,
nothing else around it.
So there's gonna be no next, there's
gonna be no framework on top of it.
We are essentially, the framework look
at me, or you are the framework, right?
So the first thing is I'm gonna have
you do is you can see this has a lot of
requirements, and so I did write out the
entire npm install here if you want to,
I'm going to invite you
to not load all of this.
So why don't you just come in here and
copy our package.json, or
you can copy this, both of those are fine.
And then we're gonna create a new project,
and we're gonna put this in here, and
then we'll run npm install, and
then I'll go over the actual
components we have here momentarily.
So come in here, cancel the other server
I'm gonna make another directory,
and this is just going to
call this one no framework.
Okay, and then I'm just gonna open this
in code and we'll close this one and
we're gonna close this one as well and
we'll maximize that one.
Okay, new file package.json,
I paste that in there.
So let's talk for just a hot moment
about what's actually in here.
One, we are gonna be doing CommonJS for
this, not ES modules.
Again, it was just way simpler, this is
one of those things, I went all the way
and made everything in ES modules and
really pretty and really nice.
And I realized we're gonna spend an extra
25 minutes just getting all this stuff
working, and nobody cares, right?
So we're cutting all that stuff out so
that's why there's a shortcut here.
And the other thing you'll notice that
we're gonna be using webpack this time,
whereas I normally recommend
people to use Vite.
Again, I went through the whole
process of making it work with Vite,
cuz you can port webpack
plugins to work with Vite.
It's fairly straightforward process, but
again, I was asking myself, nobody cares.
Why are we doing this?
So we're gonna be just
using Webpack directly.
And the reason for
that is this little magic package
here called react-server-dom-webpack.
This is the actual magic package that's
going to do all of the server components.
It basically enables a Node
server to be RSC enabled.
Then we have some Babel here, again,
this is something normally
Vite wraps around for you so
you don't have to peer into the unending
abyss of what Babel can do.
And then we're on fastify again,
just cuz I like fastify, but
you could have definitely done this
with Express, or something like that.
Where else is in here?
Pino, this is just a logging library,
we're gonna be doing some sqlite3.
So that's what's in here, just that's our
example of what you can do on a server.
Css-loader, I have this doodle.css,
it's just a kind of fun,
hand drawn this is like we're
doing note passing, right, so
it was kind of on brand,
I think that's it.
So as you can see, nobody wanted
to write all the npm installs for
this that's why we didn't do it together.
That being said, please come in here and
just say npm install and wait for
everything.
I guarantee you this gonna have
some of those security problems,
cuz it always does,
it's a lot of packages.
Yeah, deprecated, all kind of stuff,
zero vulnerabilities probably by the time
that you watch this as a recorded video,
there's gonna be 30,
it's fine, nobody cares.
Actually, somebody cares, specifically,
I don't care, [LAUGH] not today.
Okay, so that is all of the packages next,
we are going to write our webpack.config.
We're gonna code it together feel
free to copy and paste it for
my notes, this is not the part that
I'm most interested in you learning.
But I still wanted to make
you understand what's in it,
cuz I think that's important.
>> Brian Holt: So, const path=require,
again, this is the,
CommonJS instead of the imports node path,
okay?
And we're gonna say
const HtmlWebpackPlugin.
>> Brian Holt: This is the one that's
going to make our HTML shell, right?
That we were doing like our
index.html before we're
gonna rely on Webpack to do that now.
Require, html-webpack-plugin
there we go and
const ReactServerWebpackPlugin,
this is the one that we
were just talking about.
Require, so you need both sides of this,
the react-server-dom,
you need your bundle to be
bundled correctly for RSCs.
And then you need your
server to run this as well.
So it has two components so
you have to say /plugin.
Cuz essentially it has to go make stubs
whereas this is a server component.
Reach out to the server for this, that's
what this this is gonna do for our bundle.
Okay, const mode, this is all kind of
webpack stuff this was kind of a jog down
memory lane for me, cuz I haven't
actually used webpack directly.
And it's been a while, right,
I've been using Vite for the past
probably two years, and then before
probably three years, I was using Parcel.
Nothing wrong with it webpack's great, and
it was hugely instrumental in
the development of the community here.
The other tools are just a bit
more ergonomic, I think.
So I'm just getting here,
are we in development mode?
That's really what this is all for,
cuz you'll bundle it slightly differently.
>> Speaker 2: Hey Brian, just to head
up you have a typo on line three.
>> Brian Holt: Three.
>> Speaker 2: Plug in the very last word.
>> Brian Holt: Plugin, now it's
finish actually, yeah, just kidding,
[LAUGH] thank you.
So yeah, make sure you spell
not the Finnish spelling,
the American spelling or English or
Australian or Canadian wherever you are.
Just don't add extra o's as English and
Canadians are want to do.
Config = we're gonna put in mode,
which would be mode,
mode, but you can just do mode like that.
Entry, we are gonna do JSX because we're
gonna have Babel installed here as we can.
So entry is going to be ./src/Client.jsx,
module is going to be this, and
then we're gonna give it rules, okay?
And then basically, just gonna say,
if it matches this pattern,
run it through this loader,
that's what rules are here.
A bunch of stuff I had to look
up again cuz it's been so long.
Test you give it a good old friend or
regex.jsx ?$/, so
this is essentially
saying this is a rejsx,
I assume most of you know
enough to fear them, I do.
This is just saying, look for
anything that ends with jsx,
that's what the dollar sign means,
is ends with, and
then the question mark is like
the x may or may not be there.
So anything ends with js or
jsx will match this pattern.
>> Brian Holt: use,
we'll do babel-loader, so
anything that ends with this
run through babel and exclude.
Don't run anything from node_modules,
modules.
Let's do the same thing for CSS,
we're gonna say test if it ends with,
>> Brian Holt: /\.css$/, and
then you could put i here as well.
This is just case-insensitive.
My notes don't have it, so
I'll leave that one off.
This one does,
that's probably because I copied and
pasted this from somewhere,
but don't tell anyone.
Run this from through style-loader
as well as css-loader.
This is just basically anytime
that I refer to a css module,
please load that into my
final destination there.
Okay, that's all for that one,
we have to do the resolve here.
Is that down here?
Yep, resolve, nope,
not that, and that's fine.
Okay, so anytime that I don't
specify the extensions,
then assume it's either .js first, and
if there's no .js file, assume it's
a .jsx file, that's what that means.
And then plugins,
>> Brian Holt: Yep,
so here, we're just gonna say we want
you to generate our HTML file first.
So a new htmlWebpackPlugin with this
configuration of inject: true.
Frankly, I don't remember
what that one does.
I think that's injecting the paths,
but someone double checked me on that.
The publicPath will be /assets,
cuz I think that that's where
all the final things will be.
This is basically telling it how to
formulate that final HTML doc, and
the template will be one that we're about
to create, which is ./index.html, okay?
>> Brian Holt: And then output,
the RSCs are a little specific
of how they want to interact
with their bundles,
so that's what this is all about.
We're telling it basically we're
gonna make it one chunk as
opposed to trying to make
it into multiple chunks and
how we want them to be constructed,
so chunkFilename: development.
So if it's in Dev, do (id).chunk.js.
This is helpful for just identifying where
something is, and
if it's going out to prod,
we want it to have the hash in there.
>> Brian Holt: Some of this may not be
totally necessary to get this all working
locally, but I'm reticent to
improvise webpack on the fly,
as some of you might understand cuz
it's a scary thing, webpack is scary.
Path is path.resolve_dirname.
Because we're on CommonJS,
we don't have to define dirname,
that's an advantage here.
dist, that's where we're
gonna put everything.
filename is going to be
(name).js and clean is true.
I believe this is clean up after yourself,
is what that does.
And then optimization,
>> Brian Holt: Optimization
is going to be a runtime chunk.
We just want that all to be in one chunk,
so runtimeChunk is single.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and
then module.exports = config.
>> Speaker 2: Looks like you might have
missed again the React server impact.
>> Brian Holt: The most important one,
right?
>> Speaker 3: Right after 32.
>> Brian Holt: That's hilarious,
okay, thank you.
In plugins here we have new HtmlWebpack,
I was just saving the best for last.
So [LAUGH] we need one more thing, which
is this new ReactServerWebpackPlugin,
and we have to say that
this is server: false.
>> Brian Holt: So this is, again, we're
saying, when you run into one of these
React server components, treat them as
they're supposed to be treated, as a stub.
This also handles things
like server actions,
all those various features of RSCs.
That's all wrapped up into
this ReactServerWebpackPlugin.
Again, this does work with Vite.
You can make it work with Vite, you have
to write a little wraparound of this is
how you get this webpack
plugin to work with Vite,
cuz they're all just transformations
at the end of the day.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, again, not a webpack
class, we're not gonna dive too deep here,
that's why I wouldn't fault you again
if you just copied and pasted this one.
We're gonna make our Babel config,
not a Babel class, babel.config.js.
And we're gonna put
the same const development
= (process.env.NODE_ENV)
>> Brian Holt: Or
this is going to be
equal to development and
triple equals development.
So if you don't have a NODE_ENV,
just assume it's node of development,
is what that does.
>> Brian Holt: And
then module.exports= blah,
preset, presets with an S,
and nested arrays,
obviously @babel/preset-react.
I used to have to teach
this every single time, and
people would just glaze over we
went over the babble section.
It's nice, cuz Vite just
handles all this stuff for you.
Okay, so there's that, and
then we have to give it
an object of configuration
which is going to be runtime.
Not that runtime, thank you,
runtime: "automatic".
Used to have to tell Babel what
version of React you were using,
and I still find it annoying that
they don't do this automatically.
Automatic just says,
look at the package.json.
If you wanna know what version of
React I'm using, use the package.json, but
they don't.
useSpread: true and development,
I think you can put either
just development like this.
Or we can say, true, just cuz we're gonna
be in dev either time so, either way.
>> Brian Holt: Up to you.
Okay, so, that's our babel config,
let's make our index.html
>> Brian Holt: Again,
this is gonna feel real
familiar to most of you.
>> Brian Holt: Drop that.
This is gonna be, No Framework RSCs.
We're gonna put a link in here as well,
to index.css.
Okay, and then we have to give it as well.
Yeah, that should be good cuz it'll
inject everything else for us.
Okay, so we have to do body,
I give it a class here of doodle.
This is for our CSS,
this will make it all kind of cartoony,
or I feel it more like hand-drawn, and
then we're gonna do a root here with ROOT,
like that.
Okay, I should be it.
Yep, so, nothing too groundbreaking there,
this is the same one that we refer to
in our Webpack config, if you remember.
Cool, we need to go get a SQLite file,
cuz we're gonna be using
a little database, which is fun.
So go ahead and grab that, you can
grab it from a number of places, but.
The file that I want you to have
here is this notes.db I have it in
a different place, but feel free to
just copy it out of your clone repo,
however you wanna do it.
I know I have it laying around on,
it's gonna be personal, note-passer.
And I have notes.db and
I'm just gonna copy it right there,
so you can see there I have notes.db
that's the one that came from the repo.
Yeah, and
then you also need the CSS file as well.
So, that one you can just copy
the whole thing if you want to,
which is gonna be,
which one do I have here?
This is index.css.
>> Brian Holt: So, let's go ahead and grab
that one from completed, no framework.
Did I put it in source,
is that where I put it?
>> Speaker 3: Public.
>> Brian Holt: Public, thank you.
Yep, let's just grab this one,
I'm not exactly sure which one I use,
so we'll just grab this one,
make sure we get the right one.
And yeah,
let's make a public directory here.
We're gonna make a new file,
index.css, we'll paste that in here.
Okay, great.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
now in your package.json,
we're gonna add two
different scripts here.
We're gonna add one for dev:client,
this is gonna run Webpack for
us, webpack -- watch.
And then we're gonna also do one for
dev:server,
and this is gonna be node
-- watch -- conditions.
This is a new one for some people,
react -server and server/main.js.
Conditions, this is a node thing,
and I'll be honest you,
I didn't even know what this was until I
started doing react server components.
It's this thing that
you can pass into node,
that just lets you know
where is this running?
Run this version of my dependencies,
essentially, this lets specifically,
that react Webpack plugin that we're
gonna incorporate into our node server.
It lets it know that this is
the server side rendering,
not the client side rendering.
So make sure you're doing everything
from the server perspective.
So it's essentially like a massive if
statement to the entire app running,
and you could have multiple conditions.
This is a thing built into node,
I just have never used it before, so
I don't know where else this
is practically applicable, but
it does exist, in case you were wondering,
which no one was.
Yeah, it's letting react know
how to resolve its modules.
So it's actually hooked in directly
to the modules system itself.
So, if you require a client component,
it's not going to try and load it.
That's actually the important part here,
otherwise it would crash the server.
This gets us started in terms of just
getting all the machinery around,
getting this working.
Now we can actually start
writing the server and
writing the components for this.